Laws - Statute Text Legislative Services | Legislative Audits Search Bill number does not exist. Enter a vaild keyword. MyMGA Sign In Register Forgot Password Accessibility Tools Hide Images Default Contrast Reset All Settings Request Accessibility Services Accessibility Feedback Menu MEMBERS Find My Representatives Senate House Publications Related Links About COMMITTEES Charts Senate House Other Publications Related Links About MEETINGS Day(s) Week Month Update Report Publications About LEGISLATION Charts Senate House Publications About BUDGET Charts Analyses Legislation Bond Initiatives Publications Related Links About LAWS Statutes Counties Municipalities Publications Related Links About FLOOR ACTIONS Status Agendas Senate Index House Index Follow Both Chambers Publications About REDISTRICTING Congressional Legislative SEARCH Legislation Full Text Publications Media Menu MEMBERS Find My Representatives Senate House Publications Related Links About COMMITTEES Senate House Other Publications Related Links About MEETINGS Day(s) Update Report Publications About LEGISLATION Senate House Publications About BUDGET Analyses Legislation Bond Initiatives Publications Related Links About LAWS Statutes Counties Municipalities Publications Related Links About FLOOR ACTIONS Status Agendas Senate Index House Index Publications About REDISTRICTING Congressional Legislative SEARCH Legislation Full Text Publications Media Track Witness Signup FAQ Change Password Cancel Account Senate House Other About Statutes Counties Municipalities Publications Related Links About Statutes Text Article - Real Property Previous Next &sect;11&ndash;109.2. (a) The council of unit owners shall cause to be prepared and submitted to the unit owners an annual proposed budget at least 30 days before its adoption. (b) The annual budget shall provide for at least the following items: (1) Income; (2) Administration; (3) Maintenance; (4) Utilities; (5) General expenses; (6) Reserves; and (7) Capital items. (c) (1) Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3) of this subsection and in accordance with the funding plan under &sect; 11&ndash;109.4(f) of this title, the reserves provided for in the annual budget under subsection (b) of this section for a residential condominium shall: (i) Be the funding amount recommended in the most recent reserve study or updated reserve study completed under &sect; 11&ndash;109.4 of this title; and (ii) Be deposited in the reserve account on or before the last day of each fiscal year. (2) Subject to paragraph (3) of this subsection, if the most recent reserve study was an initial reserve study, the governing body shall, within 5 fiscal years following the fiscal year in which the initial reserve study was completed, attain the annual reserve funding level recommended in the initial reserve study in accordance with the funding plan under &sect; 11&ndash;109.4(f) of this title. (3) (i) The governing body of a residential condominium may determine by a two&ndash;thirds majority vote that the condominium and the unit owners are experiencing a financial hardship that limits the ability to fund reserves that are required under paragraph (1) or (2) of this subsection. (ii) Subject to subparagraphs (iii) through (v) of this paragraph, if a governing body makes a financial hardship determination based on the reserve funding requirements of paragraph (1) or (2) of this subsection: 1. The condominium may reasonably deviate from that reserve funding requirement; and 2. The funding level under that requirement shall be at least the funding amount necessary for the purposes specified under &sect; 11&ndash;109.4(f)(3) of this title. (iii) 1. Except as provided in subsubparagraph 2 of this subparagraph, a residential condominium may not deviate from the reserve funding requirements of paragraph (1) or (2) of this subsection for a period of more than 1 fiscal year following the financial hardship determination. 2. The governing body may renew a financial hardship determination under subparagraph (i) of this paragraph by a two&ndash;thirds majority vote to extend the period that a residential condominium may deviate from the reserve funding requirement by 1 fiscal year following the renewal. (iv) The governing body shall: 1. Make good faith efforts to resolve the financial hardship and resume funding reserves as required under paragraph (1) or (2) of this subsection; 2. Maintain detailed documentation of the good faith efforts made under item 1 of this subparagraph; and 3. Treat the documents under item 2 of this subparagraph as records available for examination and copying under &sect; 11&ndash;116 of this title. (v) 1. All unit owners shall be given reasonable notice in advance of a vote on an initial or a renewal of a financial hardship determination under this paragraph. 2. A vote on an initial or a renewal of a financial hardship determination under this paragraph may be taken only at a regular or special meeting of the condominium. (4) (i) The governing body of a residential condominium shall annually review the reserves and the most recent reserve study or updated reserve study to determine whether there is adequate funding in accordance with the funding plan required under &sect; 11&ndash;109.4(f) of this title. (ii) The annual review under this paragraph does not require a reserve study or updated reserve study in addition to the reserve study requirements under &sect; 11&ndash;109.4 of this title. (d) (1) The budget shall be adopted at an open meeting of the council of unit owners or any other body to which the council of unit owners delegates responsibilities for preparing and adopting the budget. (2) (i) The council of unit owners or other governing body of unit owners shall submit the adopted annual budget to the unit owners not more than 30 days after the meeting at which the budget was adopted. (ii) The adopted annual budget may be submitted to each unit owner by electronic transmission, by posting on the condominium association&rsquo;s home page, or by inclusion in the homeowners association&rsquo;s newsletter. (e) Any expenditure made other than those made because of conditions which, if not corrected, could reasonably result in a threat to the health or safety of the unit owners or a significant risk of damage to the condominium, that would result in an increase in an amount of assessments for the current fiscal year of the condominium in excess of 15 percent of the budgeted amount previously adopted, shall be approved by an amendment to the budget adopted at a special meeting, upon not less than 10 days written notice to the council of unit owners. (f) The adoption of a budget shall not impair the authority of the council of unit owners to obligate the council of unit owners for expenditures for any purpose consistent with any provision of this title. (g) The provisions of this section do not apply to a condominium that is occupied and used solely for nonresidential purposes. Previous Next Validation Please fix the following: OK Success Okay Helpful Links Executive Branch Judicial Branch Department of Legislative Services Office of Legislative Audits Report Fraud & Abuse in State Government Quick Links Guided Tours Contact Us Visit About the General Assembly Accessibility Privacy Notice Video Tutorials Helpful Tools Download Legislative Data Open Legislative Data Download &times; You are about to download a "comma-separated values" (CSV) file and/or a JSON file. The file includes information such as number, sponsor, title, legislative status, synopsis, committee assignments, legislative history, hearing dates, etc for each piece of legislation introduced during the selected legislative session. A word about the file format: CSV and JSON files are common file formats, widely supported by consumer and business applications and is used to move data between programs. The file you download can be imported into Excel, a text editor, browser, or any other application that supports the CSV and JSON formats. To save, right-click button and save as desired file format. 2026 Regular Session CSV JSON *Updated hourly 2025 Regular Session CSV JSON 2024 Regular Session CSV JSON 2023 Regular Session CSV JSON 2022 Regular Session CSV JSON 2021 Special Session CSV JSON 2021 Regular Session CSV JSON 2020 Regular Session CSV JSON 2019 Regular Session CSV JSON 2018 Regular Session CSV JSON 2017 Regular Session CSV JSON Open Data Help Click to return on the top page Alert Okay
