FHA Condominiums | HUD.gov / U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Skip to main content An official website of the United States Government Here’s how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( A locked padlock ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. Helping Americans Help with Homeownership Find Affordable Places to Live Find a HUD-certified counselor Housing Choice Voucher Experiencing Homelessness Report an Issue Current HUD Residents Experiencing a Natural Disaster Find State Resources HUD Partners FHA/Housing Resources Public and Indian Housing Resources Policies, Guidance, & Forms IT Systems Grants Native American Programs Affordable Places to Live Inspections for HUD Housing Housing Financing & Counseling Opportunity Zones & Community Development Healthy Homes Fair Housing Small Business HUDExchange Center for Faith Data & Research HUDuser.gov Data.hud.gov Reports Gold Standard Science News About Contact U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Helping Americans HUD Partners Data & Research News About Contact HUD Partners FHA Condominiums Condominium Mortgage Insurance On , FHA published its Condominium Project Approval Final Rule in the Federal Register (Docket No. FR-5715-F-02) . Additionally, it added two new sections—Section II.A.8.p "Condominiums" and Section II.C "Condominium Project Approval" —and incorporated new condominium project approval policy guidance in other sections of its Single Family Housing Policy Handbook 4000.1 (SF Handbook). The effective date for both the Final Rule and SF Handbook updates is . Section 203 (b) of the National Housing Act provides authority to insure any mortgage covering a one-family unit in a project coupled with an undivided interest in the common areas and facilities which serve the project. FHA insures condominium loans for up to 30-year terms to purchase or refinance a unit in an FHA-approved condominium project or in a project that is not FHA-approved but meets the Single-Unit Approval requirements For project approval or recertification, eligible projects must be complete and exist in full compliance with applicable state law requirements including good standing with the state, and with all other applicable laws and regulations. The condominium project also must meet the approval requirements established by HUD through the SF Handbook 4000.1, including insurance coverage, financial condition, nature of title, the existence of any pending legal action or physical property condition, and other factors that may affect the viability or marketability of the project or its units. To be eligible for Single-Unit Approval, the unit must be located in a project that is not FHA-approved, that is complete and ready for occupancy, has at least five dwelling units and it is not a manufactured home. The project must also meet a subset of the requirements set forth for project approval, including FHA insurance concentration, owner-occupancy percentage, and financial condition of the project. More Resources Search for FHA-approved Condos by Location, Name or Status Condominium Logging Package Search Expired and Superseded Guidance Partial Waiver of Mortgagee Letter 2011-22, Attachment #1: Condominium Project Approval and Processing Guide, Section 2.1.9 (2/19/2020) Recent Guidance Partial Waiver of the requirements of the Single Family Housing Policy Handbook, 4000.1, Section Il.C.2.c.vii Condominium Project Approval Project Approval for Single Family Condominiums Final Rule (Docket No. FR-5715-F-02) Single Family Housing Policy Handbook 4000.1 Helping Americans HUD Partners Researchers News About Contact U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development 451 7th Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20410 T: (202) 402-3815 Find a HUD office near you Search Office of Inspector General | No Fear Act | FOIA | Privacy | Accessibility | Web Policies | Sitemap
