Virginia General Assembly /
LIS Learning Center /
Privacy Policy /
LIS home /
Register Account /
Login
Session Information
Bills & Resolutions
State Budget
Virginia Law
Reports to the General Assembly
Virginia Law
Select Search Type
All
Code of Virginia
Administrative Code
Constitution
Charters
Authorities
Compacts
Uncodified Acts
Code of Virginia
Table of Contents » Title 55.1. Property and Conveyances » Subtitle IV. Common Interest Communities » Chapter 19. Virginia Condominium Act » Article 3. Management of Condominium » § 55.1-1965. Annual budget; reserve study; reserves for capital components
Section
Print
PDF
email
Creating a Report: Check the sections you'd like to appear in the report, then use the "Create Report" button at the bottom of the page to generate your report. Once the report is generated you'll then have the option to download it as a pdf, print or email the report.
Code of Virginia
Title 55.1. Property and Conveyances
Chapter 19. Virginia Condominium Act
8/29/2026
§ 55.1-1965 . Annual budget; reserve study; reserves for capital components.
A. Except to the extent provided in the condominium instruments, the executive board shall, prior to the commencement of the fiscal year, make available to unit owners either (i) the annual budget of the unit owners' association or (ii) a summary of such annual budget.
B. Except to the extent otherwise provided in the condominium instruments, the executive board shall:
1. Conduct a study at least once every five years to determine the necessity and amount of reserves required to repair, replace, and restore the capital components as defined in § 55.1-1900 ;
2. Review the results of that study at least annually to determine if reserves are sufficient; and
3. Make any adjustments to the annual budget and annual assessment the executive board deems necessary to maintain reserves, as appropriate.
C. To the extent that the reserve study conducted in accordance with this section indicates a need to budget for reserves, the unit owners' association budget shall include:
1. The current estimated replacement cost, estimated remaining life, and estimated useful life of the capital components as defined in § 55.1-1900 ;
2. As of the beginning of the fiscal year for which the budget is prepared, the current amount of accumulated cash reserves set aside to repair, replace, or restore the capital components and the amount of the expected contribution to the reserve fund for that fiscal year;
3. A statement describing the procedures used for estimation and accumulation of cash reserves pursuant to this section; and
4. A statement of the amount of reserves recommended in the study and the amount of current cash for replacement reserves.
D. The executive board shall have the discretion to meet repair and replacement requirements through replacement reserves, additional assessments, or borrowed funds.
2002, c. 459 , § 55-79.83:1; 2019, cc. 33 , 44 , 712 ; 2024, c. 324 .
The chapters of the acts of assembly referenced in the historical citation at the end of this section may not constitute a comprehensive list of such chapters and may exclude chapters whose provisions have expired.
Section
Code of Virginia
Popular Names
2026 Updates
Section Look Up
Go
Administrative Code
Constitution of Virginia
Charters
Authorities
Compacts
Uncodified Acts
Sign In
Username:
Password:
Cancel
LIS Home
Lobbyist-in-a-Box
Privacy Policy
© Copyright Commonwealth of Virginia,
. All rights reserved. Site developed by the Division of Legislative Automated Systems (DLAS) .
Sign In
